# Cybersecurity Incident Report: OS Hardening

## Scenario 

You are a cybersecurity analyst working for a multimedia company that offers web design services, graphic design, and social media marketing solutions to small businesses. Your organization recently experienced a DDoS attack, which compromised the internal network for two hours until it was resolved.
During the attack, your organization’s network services suddenly stopped responding due to an incoming flood of ICMP packets. Normal internal network traffic could not access any network resources. The incident management team responded by blocking incoming ICMP packets, stopping all non-critical network services offline, and restoring critical network services. 
The company’s cybersecurity team then investigated the security event. They found that a malicious actor had sent a flood of ICMP pings into the company’s network through an unconfigured firewall. This vulnerability allowed the malicious attacker to overwhelm the company’s network through a distributed denial of service (DDoS) attack. 

To address this security event, the network security team implemented: 
*	A new firewall rule to limit the rate of incoming ICMP packets
*	Source IP address verification on the firewall to check for spoofed IP addresses on incoming ICMP packets
*	Network monitoring software to detect abnormal traffic patterns
*	An IDS/IPS system to filter out some ICMP traffic based on suspicious characteristics

As a cybersecurity analyst, you are tasked with using this security event to create a plan to improve your company’s network security, following the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Cybersecurity Framework (CSF). You will use the CSF to help you navigate through the different steps of analyzing this cybersecurity event and integrate your analysis into a general security strategy. We have broken the analysis into different parts in the template below. You can explore them here:
*	Identify security risks through regular audits of internal networks, systems, devices, and access privileges to identify potential gaps in security. 
*	Protect internal assets through the implementation of policies, procedures, training and tools that help mitigate cybersecurity threats. 
*	Detect potential security incidents and improve monitoring capabilities to increase the speed and efficiency of detections. 
*	Respond to contain, neutralize, and analyze security incidents; implement improvements to the security process.

## Traffic Log:

```
14:18:32.192571 IP your.machine.52444 > dns.google.domain: 35084+ A? yummyrecipesforme.com. (24)
14:18:32.204388 IP dns.google.domain > your.machine.52444: 35084 1/0/0 A 203.0.113.22 (40)


14:18:36.786501 IP your.machine.36086 > yummyrecipesforme.com.http: Flags [S], seq 2873951608, win 65495, options [mss 65495,sackOK,TS val 3302576859 ecr 0,nop,wscale 7], length 0
14:18:36.786517 IP yummyrecipesforme.com.http > your.machine.36086: Flags [S.], seq 3984334959, ack 2873951609, win 65483, options [mss 65495,sackOK,TS val 3302576859 ecr 3302576859,nop,wscale 7], length 0
14:18:36.786529 IP your.machine.36086 > yummyrecipesforme.com.http: Flags [.], ack 1, win 512, options [nop,nop,TS val 3302576859 ecr 3302576859], length 0
14:18:36.786589 IP your.machine.36086 > yummyrecipesforme.com.http: Flags [P.], seq 1:74, ack 1, win 512, options [nop,nop,TS val 3302576859 ecr 3302576859], length 73: HTTP: GET / HTTP/1.1
14:18:36.786595 IP yummyrecipesforme.com.http > your.machine.36086: Flags [.], ack 74, win 512, options [nop,nop,TS val 3302576859 ecr 3302576859], length 0
…<a lot of traffic on the port 80>... 

```


```
14:18:32.192571 IP your.machine.52444 > dns.google.domain: 35084+ A? yummyrecipesforme.com. (24)
14:18:32.204388 IP dns.google.domain > your.machine.52444: 35084 1/0/0 A 203.0.113.22 (40)


14:18:36.786501 IP your.machine.36086 > yummyrecipesforme.com.http: Flags [S], seq 2873951608, win 65495, options [mss 65495,sackOK,TS val 3302576859 ecr 0,nop,wscale 7], length 0
14:18:36.786517 IP yummyrecipesforme.com.http > your.machine.36086: Flags [S.], seq 3984334959, ack 2873951609, win 65483, options [mss 65495,sackOK,TS val 3302576859 ecr 3302576859,nop,wscale 7], length 0
14:18:36.786529 IP your.machine.36086 > yummyrecipesforme.com.http: Flags [.], ack 1, win 512, options [nop,nop,TS val 3302576859 ecr 3302576859], length 0
14:18:36.786589 IP your.machine.36086 > yummyrecipesforme.com.http: Flags [P.], seq 1:74, ack 1, win 512, options [nop,nop,TS val 3302576859 ecr 3302576859], length 73: HTTP: GET / HTTP/1.1
14:18:36.786595 IP yummyrecipesforme.com.http > your.machine.36086: Flags [.], ack 74, win 512, options [nop,nop,TS val 3302576859 ecr 3302576859], length 0
…<a lot of traffic on the port 80>... 

```

## Respond:

### Identify the network protocol involved in the incident

The incident involves the HTTP protocol, as the issue occurred while accessing the yummyrecipesforme.com web server. Analysis using tcpdump confirmed HTTP traffic during access attempts. The logs also indicate that a malicious file was delivered to users via HTTP at the application layer.

### Document the incident

Several customers contacted the website’s helpdesk stating that when they visited the website, they were prompted to download and run a file that contained access to new recipes. Their personal computers have been operating slowly ever since. The website owner tried logging into the web server but noticed they were locked out of their account.

The cybersecurity analyst used a sandbox environment to open the website without impacting the company network. Then, the analyst ran tcpdump to capture the network traffic packets produced by interacting with the website. The analyst was prompted to download a file claiming it would provide access to free recipes, accepted the download and ran it. The browser then redirected the analyst to a fake website (greatrecipesforme.com). 

The cybersecurity analyst inspected the tcpdump log and observed that the browser initially requested the IP address for the yummyrecipesforme.com website. Once the connection with the website was established over the HTTP protocol, the analyst recalled downloading and executing the file. The logs showed a sudden change in network traffic as the browser requested a new IP address for the greatrecipesforme.com URL. The network traffic was then rerouted to the new IP address for the greatrecipesforme.com website. 

The senior cybersecurity professional analyzed the source code for the websites and the downloaded file. The analyst discovered that an attacker had manipulated the website to add code that prompted the users to download a malicious file disguised as a browser update. Since the website owner stated that they had been locked out of their administrator account, the team believes the attacker used a brute force attack to access the account and change the admin password. The execution of the malicious file compromised the end users’ computers. 

### Recommend one or more remediations for brute force attacks

One security measure the team plans to implement to protect against brute force attacks is to disallow previous passwords from being used. Since the vulnerability that lead to this attack was the attacker’s ability to use a default password to log in, it’s important that we prevent any old passwords such as default passwords from being used to reset the password. Another supportive measure is to require more frequent password updates, so in case any unauthorized person becomes aware of the password, they are less likely to be able to use that password if the password is updated sooner than later. Finally, another helpful solution is to implement two-factor authentication (2FA). 2FA requires authentication via a password and also by confirming a one-time passcode (OTP) sent to either their email or phone. Once the user confirms their identity through their login credentials and the OTP, they will gain access to the system. Any malicious actor that attempts a brute force attack will not likely gain access to the system because it requires additional authentication. 



